Welcome to this module on choosing the right solar panel.
You'll learn to identify the parts of a module, read its specifications, tell the three panel types apart, and recommend the right panel for a site.
A single cell makes only about half a volt.
Wire many cells together and seal them, and you get a module.
Connect modules together and you get an array.
A module is a sealed sandwich built to last 25 years.
Tempered glass on top, cells sealed between two layers of EVA, a weatherproof back-sheet, an aluminium frame, and a junction box.
Monocrystalline is black and the most efficient.
Polycrystalline is blue and easier on the budget.
Thin-film is flexible and the calmest in high heat.
The site decides the choice.
Watt-peak is measured at standard test conditions.
Voc is the open-circuit voltage, Isc the short-circuit current, and the temperature coefficient shows how much power is lost as the panel heats up.
In the 3D lab you can rotate the module, explode its layers, switch between the three technologies, and change the sunlight and temperature to watch the live power output respond.
You can now name the layers of a solar module, read its key specifications, tell the three technologies apart, and choose the right panel for a site.
That's the installer's craft.